Study: Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones DatasetGetting and Cleaning Data course - getdata-008 - course projectCodebook:1. Subjects: Identification of the subject with range 1-302. Sample: Show if the subject was selected for the test or train group3. Activity: Represent the activity during which the measures were made (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING)4. Body Acceleration x mean: Mean value of the body acceleration signal obtained by subtracting the gravity from the total acceleration measure from the Smartphone accelerometer X axis in standard gravity units 'g'.5. Body Acceleration x deviation: Mean value of the standard deviation for the value of the body acceleration signal obtained by subtracting the gravity from the total acceleration measure from the Smartphone accelerometer X axis in standard gravity units 'g'.6. Body Acceleration y mean: Mean value of the body acceleration signal obtained by subtracting the gravity from the total acceleration measure from the Smartphone accelerometer Y axis in standard gravity units 'g'.7. Body Acceleration y deviation: Mean value of the standard deviation for the value of the body acceleration signal obtained by subtracting the gravity from the total acceleration measure from the Smartphone accelerometer Y axis in standard gravity units 'g'.8. Body Acceleration z mean: Mean value of the body acceleration signal obtained by subtracting the gravity from the total acceleration measure from the Smartphone accelerometer Z axis in standard gravity units 'g'.9. Body Acceleration z deviation: Mean value of the standard deviation for the value of the body acceleration signal obtained by subtracting the gravity from the total acceleration measure from the Smartphone accelerometer Z axis in standard gravity units 'g'.10. Angular Velocity x mean: The mean value for the angular velocity vector X dimension measured by the gyroscope for each window sample. The units are radians/second. 11. Angular Velocity x deviation: Mean value of the standard deviation for value of the angular velocity vector X dimension measured by the gyroscope for each window sample. The units are radians/second.12. Angular Velocity y mean: The mean value for the angular velocity vector Y dimension measured by the gyroscope for each window sample. The units are radians/second. 13. Angular Velocity y deviation: Mean value of the standard deviation for value of the angular velocity vector Y dimension measured by the gyroscope for each window sample. The units are radians/second.14. Angular Velocity z mean: The mean value for the angular velocity vector Z dimension measured by the gyroscope for each window sample. The units are radians/second. 15. Angular Velocity z deviation: Mean value of the standard deviation for value of the angular velocity vector Z dimension measured by the gyroscope for each window sample. The units are radians/second.16. Total Acceleration x mean: Mean value of the measured acceleration signal from the Smartphone accelerometer X axis in standard gravity units 'g'. 17. Total Acceleration x deviation: Mean value of the standard deviation for the measured acceleration signal from the Smartphone accelerometer X axis in standard gravity units 'g'.18. Total Acceleration y mean: Mean value of the measured acceleration signal from the Smartphone accelerometer Y axis in standard gravity units 'g'.19. Total Acceleration y deviation: Mean value of the standard deviation for the measured acceleration signal from the Smartphone accelerometer Y axis in standard gravity units 'g'.20. Total Acceleration z mean: Mean value of the measured acceleration signal from the Smartphone accelerometer Z axis in standard gravity units 'g'.21. Total Acceleration z deviation: Mean value of the standard deviation for the measured acceleration signal from the Smartphone accelerometer Z axis in standard gravity units 'g'.Study design:Data was obtained from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zipThe dataset represents an experiment carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity was captured at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiment was video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset was randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers were selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components; therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cut-off frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain The values for the training set 'train/X_train.txt' and test set 'test/X_test.txt' were removed by the end of the analysis as information such as units and acquisition method were missing. 